Documentation for --checkpoint-sync-url (#497)
Consensys/doc.teku: docs/reference/cli/index.md

:::

### checkpoint-sync-url

<!--tabs-->

# Syntax

```bash
--checkpoint-sync-url=<URL>
```

# Example

```bash
--checkpoint-sync-url="https://beaconstate.ethstaker.cc"
```

# Environment variable

```bash
TEKU_CHECKPOINT_SYNC_URL="https://beaconstate.ethstaker.cc"
```

# Configuration file

```bash
checkpoint-sync-url: "https://beaconstate.ethstaker.cc"
```

<!--/tabs-->

> URL of a Checkpointz endpoint used to boostrap the node.
> 
> By default, Teku will try to download the finalized state from the endpoint. If it can't download the finalized state, it will try to download the genesis state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
URL of a Checkpointz endpoint used to [start Teku from a recent state](../../get-started/checkpoint-start.md).

By default, Teku tries to download the finalized state from the endpoint. If it can't download the finalized state, it tries to download the genesis state.
```
